Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-10-02T10:01:59-04:00

====== Dasht ======
Created Saturday 02 October 2021

Long ago, before the stars in the sky opened their unblinking eyes, two twin gods came into being. Together, they toiled in creation; carving the land from their bodies and filling the rivers and seas with the sweat of their brow and blood from their veins. When they were satisfied with the land, they brought forth life from their very breath. From Jor, the god of order and fate, the Dwarves and Elves were created as mortal embodiments of body and mind, one to inhabit the ground and one to rise above it. From Azad, the god of chaos and freedom, a flood of sentient creatures, each more exotic than the last. Humans, Gnomes, Halflings, Dragonborn, Orcs, Tieflings; what they lacked in refinement, they made up for in passion. As the newly created people began to explore the lands, things were good for a time.

However, peace can never stay for long. Eventually, factions began to form and wars broke out among the races and the nations they stood for. The siblings conferred with each over what to do, but their opinions were diametrically opposed. Their discussion turned into an argument, and soon the heavens were filled with the booms and crashes of their godly rage. Eventually, the two split the world in twain; literally pushing the land apart, and in doing so creating two twin mountain ranges, and in the middle, a vast and inhospitable desert that the people came to call the Dasht. The peoples born of the gods had mixed, but their lands were irrevocably separated, and the twin gods sank into the depths of history.

Time continues, the stories fall into legends, and truth is obfuscated through the fog of eons. Eventually, caravans  make pilgrimages south of the desert and boats begin to traverse the seas, and the people of Bahrt are once again connected. As populations rose, so too did tensions between the nations, and again war erupted amongst the people, this time waged with centuries of technological advancements and magical prowess. Casualties were devastating, and to shore up forces, mystical craftsmen invented a way to bring to life automatons they called Warforged. These beings were ageless and sentient, and while briefly used for the Long War, they called into question the morality of this bloody engagement. The nations then came together and created a global governing body called the Union, which oversees the independent nations and ensures peace between peoples.

It has been over 200 years since the formation of the Union, and the prosperity brought forth by global peace has allowed the nations to expand their scientific knowledge, and open the doors to new and exciting territories. The Union has called on the denizens of the world who seek a new life to find their way to the frontier town of Wagon Rut, to claim their spot of land out there in the Dasht.
